Hello,
welcome to the FxPlug in Depth session.
Sorry we started a little late,
but Pete's plane showed up about
five minutes late on Tuesday,
so we've just been off
a little bit since then.
We're going to talk about some
advanced topics that we didn't get to
cover on yesterday's FxPlug session,
the overview.
and do some demos and talk
about OpenGL and so on.
I'm Dave Howell again.
In this session we will talk
about how you can do retiming,
how you can,
when it's time to render a frame,
you can get an input frame for a filter
that comes from a different time.
So you can do a video reverb style effect
or motion blur or something like that.
We will talk about the two
optional parameter types that
some hosts might support,
the gradient and the histogram.
And custom parameter types,
which we kind of briefly talked
about in yesterday's session,
but we will talk more about how you can
implement custom parameter type and what
the requirements and restrictions are.
and custom parameter UI which is often
associated with a custom parameter type.
We will also talk about how to do on
screen controls in OpenGL where you
put your controls directly into the
canvas and let people manipulate the
parameters of a filter by dragging
or drawing or that sort of thing,
or key presses.
And we will talk about some of the
details of using OpenGL in an FX plug.
So when you do retiming,
this is only for filters,
for generators you can get all
of your input parameters that
you want at any time you want.
You can find out what the value
say of a slider is at the current
time or at some other frame time.
But for filters, in order to get an input
frame at a different time,
you need to use the FXTemporalImage API,
host API methods.
[Transcript missing]
and also you can get the input
as a bitmap or a texture.
So in your hardware render method
normally you would get the texture
and in your software method
you usually get the bitmap.
So I'll just really quickly show you the,
those methods for getting the
inputs at different times.
There's one called getSourceBitmap.
and get input bitmap.
The source is the unfiltered and the
input one is the filtered version.
The time value is a frame time,
but it's a floating point value,
so you can give it a
and the same thing,
there is a get source texture
and a get input texture.
and in each of these the render
information is passed in,
in your render function you're given
a render info structure which you
then can pass back into these methods.
So to show you what kind of
things you can do with retiming,
here is Pete Warden,
graphics coder extraordinaire
from Motion Team.
Hey, thanks Dave.
Okay,
so I'm just going to give you a little
demonstration of what we've actually been
talking about with all the code here.
So if I actually bring up some footage
and just get this actually playing back.
I will change the project length here.
If I enable a filter that
lets me scrub in time,
If I just stop the playback,
you can see that you can
actually access the input,
which can be footage or which can be
anything that has gone through the
motion render engine with any effects
applied or anything else like that.
You can just say, "Okay,
I want the footage at 10 frames a go,
30 frames a go,
just purely random access."
and you can see it's very useful.
Back to slides.
As I said,
there are two optional parameter types:
histograms and gradients.
And the reason they're
called optional is that while
Motion does support both of those,
some other hypothetical host
app in the ProApp Suite might
not support these types.
So when the support
is added to Final Cut,
we don't guarantee that
these will be there.
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
Just like the way that you
create regular parameters,
the standard parameter types,
and you get their values
and you set their values,
there are analogous
host APIs for creating,
getting and setting values for
the optional parameter types.
So the histogram is used
in one Motion plugin,
the Levels plugin.
It may not be too useful for general use,
but it's there if you want
to use it in your plugin.
You can see that it has a very
simple interface that can be expanded
and a user can go into quite a
bit of depth with the levels.
So to create these you use the
API manager to get an object
that's a member of a class that
implements the protocol called
FxOptionalParameterCreationAPI.
And that creator object then has
methods addHistogramWithName and another
one for making a gradient parameter.
You can see in this example,
most of the examples I've given have just
had the default flag for the parm flag,
so I've set some flags in here just
to give you a flavor for what kind of
things there are in the parameter flags.
And the levels, you probably actually
would want to save this,
but if you're using the histogram
just for displaying levels and
not really interacting with them,
you might not want to save the values.
[Transcript missing]
and setting the histogram
levels is similar.
So you can get the levels, you can change
Here's the gradient parameter,
the other optional one
shown closed and open.
and this is probably more generally
useful to plugin developers.
You can use gradients which
you can see the little pop-up
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
So let's get started.
So I'm going to start with a
quick demo of the new FxPlug SDK.
It's a very cool new tool.
I think this is a very popular tool.
It's called the FxPlug SDK.
It's a very popular tool,
and it's a very popular
So to show you what those look
like we'll go to the demo machine.
Yeah, I'll just, again,
I'll drag over the same footage.
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
[Transcript missing]
I will start with a nice little
widget letting you do all the things
that you would expect to do with
a Levels color correction tool.
Now if I actually go over and
select gradient color eyes while
I have got the image selected.
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
You can see this whole gradient
UI widget that you basically get.
You really don't have to
do any work for this on the
FxPlug side as Dave was saying.
All you do is request a
gradient parameter and we set
all of this stuff up for you.
For example, I can put a, you know,
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
It really is very straightforward to
actually be using this in the code.
and Dave.
Back to slides.
So custom parameters.
You create a custom parameter the same
way as you create the other parameters
with the addCustomParameterWithName
method which is one of the methods in
the standard parameter creation API.
But the interesting thing here
is that the default value is
an object of your custom class.
So the type can be any
class that you want,
except that it needs to conform
to the NSCoding protocol.
So, and that's used for motion to be able
to flatten your custom data when it's
saving a project or for duplicating a set
of parameters from one track to another,
that sort of thing.
So here you can see we instantiate
something called MyDataClass with
the empty data method.
and this is the NSCoding method.
You can see it's really straightforward.
Obviously it will get complex
if your custom class is complex,
but it's just two methods
that you need to implement:
encodeWithCoder and initWithCoder.
[Transcript missing]
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
I've added another restriction which
is that you have to do keyed coding
with your NSCoding implementation.
It needs to use encode object for
key and decode object for key.
and as long as you do
that you'll be fine.
You can't just use NSString which
does conform to NSCoding,
you have to make it use keyed coding.
So when you do custom parameter UI,
what you do is you create an NSView and
and tell the host app that using the
FxPlug protocols that that's to be the
control for one of your parameters.
and it can be any subclass of NSView.
It could be a subclass of
NSOpenGLView or your own thing.
Here's an example that is
NSTextEditView which is really
pretty simple to implement.
You get the standard methods.
You can use the standard
NSTextEditView methods to get the
value of the string inside the view.
The other thing you can do
with the NSView is you can
create an interface builder,
save it in a nib and because
an FxPlug is a bundle,
you can look inside your resources
folder and load that nib.
It will be localized
and all that good stuff.
Another thing you need to do when you
use the custom parameter view host
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
The first thing you need to do is add the
name of that API to the list of protocols
that you implement in your plug-in.
Here is the example from the
Info.plist of a generator that has
[Transcript missing]
So in Motion your custom view
appears in the inspector.
You can make your view resizable,
although you might notice that
in Motion right now the resizing
will only be horizontally.
There's a fixed height.
Whatever height you create your view as,
it's going to always be that height.
There's no control for
resizing that in the app.
You can also use any subclass of NSView,
and I just made a silly example of
something you might do in a custom view,
but it can really be any
kind of graphical stuff.
and of course you can use
Core Image and Core Graphics
and all of that for preview.
Now, you get the methods,
you would override methods in
NSView and NSResponder classes to get
mouse down events and anything else,
key events, even complex tablet events.
If you use the tablet events for
things like angle and whether you're
using the eraser or the pen tip,
then you would get those events too.
and of course a scroll event.
You can also assign a contextual menu to
your view so when the user right clicks
or control clicks you can present a menu.
One thing to note though is that
unlike any other of the methods
that you implement in your plugin,
the custom parameter UI methods are
they're called -- I'm sorry -- the
NSView and NSResponder methods are
going to be called by the system,
not by FXplug.
So the host app might not be in a state
where you can access parameter values,
get and set parameters or change
the state of parameters like
hiding them or deactivating some,
that sort of thing.
So in order to access your parameters,
you need to use the action API.
You get that host API from
the ProPlug API for protocol
method and just make two calls.
One is start action before you start
accessing the parameter values and
then end action when you're done.
Pretty simple, but if you don't do it,
you'll suffer heinous results.
The other thing that's in the
Custom Parameter Action API is one
method for getting the current time.
And that's just because, of course,
when you get a mouse down event,
you don't know what the
time in the timeline is.
It's the current time in the timeline,
not the system time
or anything like that.
If you want to know what frame you
were on when the user clicked or
dragged or pressed a key or something,
then you just use that and
get the current time value.
And then when you go to
get a parameter value,
you can pass that frame number,
that time in.
So you probably want to see
what these things look like.
Okay.
Should we go to the demo machine?
I'm Pete Warden,
I'm an engineer with the Motion Team,
and I'm going to be talking about
on-screen controls initially.
But what I want to really do is
just give you an idea of what
we're actually talking about,
what the motivation is
here to be doing this.
So,
if I go over to our Kaleidoscope filter,
and you pay attention to
the thing that I'm actually
dragging around with the mouse,
Um...
This whole UI widget is actually
a custom UI widget that we
are drawing through FxPlug.
You get control over a whole
bunch of segment angle things,
you can drag the center of this around,
you can actually change the rotation you
have got for the kaleidoscope filter,
all through just one
fairly simple widget.
And this is really something
that our users have been very
keen on and very impressed by,
and it is something that if you
are writing your own filter,
if you can find a way to give users this
sort of control over what you are doing,
they are going to be very
happy and there is going to be,
you know, people are definitely
going to look at this,
you know,
buy it if there is this sort of high
level of user interaction there.
Do you want to come over to slides?
Yeah, if you have got the, yeah.
Some slides for on screen controls.
Yeah,
so now that I have given you the kind of,
you know, the 10,000 foot view of
what on screen controls are,
I am just going to go over some of the
details of actually implementing these,
the sort of stuff that you will
need to know if you are planning
on doing this in your own plug-ins.
[Transcript missing]
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
As far as user interaction,
we have our own custom API that
gives you mouse and keyboard events.
As Dave was saying about
the set parameter stuff,
when you actually get those events,
what you should be doing is calling
set parameter on the parameters for
your filter and doing control over
your filter in that sort of way.
[Transcript missing]
A way of drawing into the screen
buffer where instead of using
textures you actually draw in
IDs of the user interface elements
that you are actually drawing.
And then we take that screen buffer
and we read the ID when we want to
figure out which object or which
part of your filters UI the user
has just clicked on and selected.
So you do the same thing as you would do
to actually draw the UI except instead
of setting colors or textures you just
set an ID saying which part of the UI you
are actually drawing at the current time.
time.
Well, that's just been a quick
skip over on screen controls.
Now I'm going to go into some of
the really kind of dark and dingy
corners of the OpenGL rendering side.
The first thing that I want
to talk about is pbuffers.
What is a pbuffer?
A pbuffer stands for pixel buffer.
It is an OpenGL term.
What you can think about is if you ever
need a temporary image to draw into,
if you ever need intermediate
results in your filter,
if you ever need to be doing
multi-pass rendering at all,
then you are going to have to start
to get to grips with pbuffers.
You can do simple filters such as color
correction that you can fit into a single
fragment program without using pbuffers.
As I was saying in the introductory talk,
you can just set up your
fragment program and draw a quad.
But we find for the majority
of our more complex plugins,
we actually end up
doing things like blurs,
we actually end up having to
render out intermediate results.
And then use those intermediate
results in further stages.
And in those cases,
you really need to be getting
to grips with pbuffers.
Now, we have some example code that
we give out about pbuffers
for the creation and deletion.
I just want to go over
some of the policy,
some of the things that you
really should know if you're
actually looking at using pbuffers.
One of them is pbuffer
creation and deletion.
We really highly recommend that you
make sure that you just create pbuffers
once in your render function and then
you actually keep them around for that
plugin's instance for as long as you can.
The pbuffer creation is a
very expensive operation.
There's a whole bunch of system
resources and on the OpenGL driver level,
there's an awful lot of work.
It has to go in every time you
create or delete a pbuffer.
It makes a massive difference to your
rendering performance if you can just
do that creation or deletion once and
then just have them sitting there.
This gets a little bit more
complicated when you're dealing
with a situation where a filter is
on something that's changing size,
for example, a particle system.
You really need to be creating pbuffers
that fit the size that you've been given.
Especially particle systems
are really a pathological case,
but it comes up in a lot of other
situations as well where something's
continuously changing size.
If you're not careful,
you end up actually recreating those
pbuffers that you're using within
your filter every single frame.
One of the things that we have been
doing is we've been doing a lot
of work on the pbuffer rendering.
We've been doing a lot of
work on the pbuffer rendering.
One of the things that we've been
doing is using various strategies
to over-allocate pbuffers so that
we actually allocate pbuffers larger
than we need at the current time so
that we're able to deal with some
growth before we have to reallocate.
That's actually been a big part
of our optimization strategy.
That's made a real difference to
our performance with the filters.
Now, when you actually come to trying to
do some rendering using PBuffers,
the way that it works is you
call some sort of PBuffer begin
function which redirects all of your
OpenGL drawing into the PBuffer context,
all of your rendering calls then
get rendered into that PBuffer
and then you call some sort of
PBuffer end which returns you to
the context that you were in before.
Once you've done that,
really you can call some sort of use
function on the PBuffer and that just
lets you use that exactly like a texture.
There really is no difference from
the actual user point of view.
[Transcript missing]
any of the other things you'd
really like to be doing there.
I mean there are some limited
ways that you can use the geo
blending to do accumulation into the
pBuffer that you're drawing into,
or to do simple compositing but there
really isn't a good way of accessing your
current pBuffer that you're drawing into.
So the scheme that we always use,
we use an awful lot,
is the ping pong as we call it,
or the double buffer
approach where we draw some,
do some rendering into a buffer and then
when we need to reference that to do
some further processing on it we go to a,
we switch over to a second buffer and
use the first pBuffer as a texture,
as an input into the fragment program.
And with two buffer you can pretty
much do all of that you want,
you just switch back and forth
for every stage that you're doing.
So I've covered pixel buffers there.
Now what I want to talk about
is some pixel shader stuff.
Just some of the sort of things
I want you really to know about
fragment programs and some of the funky
little details of using our fragment
program within FX plug filters.
As I said, fragment programs,
pixel shaders, there's a lot of different
terms for all of these things.
What they involve is calling
assembler-like functions on every
pixel that you're drawing through
the OpenGL rendering engine.
We have some code up as part of our Xcode
template that demonstrates how to create
and delete these R fragment programs,
it really isn't that much code.
And as far as using them,
if you're used to using
textures for OpenGL rendering,
it's very much the same syntax.
All you do is you bind the
fragment program just before
you're ready to draw your quad,
and then when you actually
call the rendering routines,
the fragment program gets called on every
pixel that you render using that quad.
And I also briefly want to talk about
some of the possible alternatives.
I mean, one of the things you can do as
well is if you have a filter that
will fit into the core image idea,
then that's definitely something
that you can do within your FX plug
filter using core image filters,
chaining them together, that's a very,
very viable way of approaching this.
Another thing we have
looked at is using CG,
using--because we really-- we
know that our fragment program
is a pretty low level language,
so it would be nice if we actually
had a more high level way of
approaching writing our pixel shaders.
So we have looked at trying to
use CG within our FX plug filters.
And we've had some success.
We also have run into some problems
with the Mac CG implementation.
So it's something to think about,
but we really have turned back to
just using our fragment program as
our main implementation language
for all of the filters in motion,
just because it's a fairly stable,
it's a fairly well understood system.
And it also lets us do some of the
stuff that we need to do to run on,
for example, ATI cards,
which happen to have a lot of
restrictions on the sort of
programs that they can run.
It's a lot easier to actually be
dealing at the assembler level with
those sort of restrictions rather than
trying to figure it out from compiled
output of a more high level language.
Another thing that I'm going
to talk about is the floating
point support within Motion,
and the floating point
support in OpenGL in general.
There is some floating
point support in Panther,
but in general it's a Tiger-only feature.
That's where it's really been, you know,
all of the bugs have been ironed out and
it really seems to be working well on
all of the cards that Motion ships on,
all the way from the MV34
up to the newer cards.
It doesn't actually make much of
a difference to simple filters.
Since our Fragment program
runs internally at floating
point depth anyway,
as long as you're just doing
a single pass fragment shader,
pixel shader plugin,
then the conversion is
kind of handled for you.
It's handled outside of
the R Fragment program.
When it pulls in the texture and
when it writes out your final result,
it converts down to whatever bit
depth you happen to be rendering to.
[Transcript missing]
This is another question that
we get asked an awful lot is,
"Okay, I want to do some 3D rendering.
Where's my ZBuffer?"
When we call an FxPlug plugin,
we call you in a context that doesn't
actually have a depth buffer attached.
That's a conscious decision on our
part because most plugins don't
actually need the depth buffer,
and every time you use the
depth buffer it takes up VRAM,
it takes up system resources.
So if we can avoid rendering
using a depth buffer,
that really does speed
things up a fair bit.
So what do you do if you actually
need a Z-buffer for your rendering,
if you're doing some sort of 3D
rendering within your plugin?
Well, you just create a P-buffer
internally to your plugin,
render into that with a Z-buffer
attached to that P-buffer,
and then you take the results from that
P-buffer and use it as a texture to
draw into the context that we give you.
Now one thing I should
mention is that you will,
especially in this space,
if you're doing 3D,
using a Z-buffer to handle intersections
that tends to show up some really
nasty artifacts that people in the
motion graphics industry really
don't expect to see the sort of
jagginess that you end up using
just a standard Z-buffer implementation.
So some sort of anti-aliasing,
some sort of improvement to the
quality there is very recommended.
Another thing to be aware of,
or hopefully we take care
of most of this for you,
but just in case you ever
run into this situation,
I want to go over some of
the limits to the texture and
pbuffer sizes you can have.
On current ATI cards,
you can go up to 2048x2048 for a
single texture or for a pbuffer
that you're rendering into.
The same is true on NV34 cards,
the 64MB NVIDIA cards that are out there.
But for all other NVIDIA cards you
can actually go up to 4096x4096.
I
This is the situation for 8-bit,
and this is just a hardware
limitation of the cards.
Now, for float it gets a little bit more
complicated because you start to run
into the VRAM limits on the card.
You can only fit so many
P-buffers and so many textures
on the card at the same time.
And it gets kind of variable
depending on even stuff like if
people have two monitors attached,
that actually splits the VRAM in
half and gives half to each monitor.
So there's a whole bunch of calculations
we end up having to do to figure out,
okay, what's the maximum size that we
can have for textures and P-buffers
if you're at higher bit depths.
Now, as I said,
we try and handle this for you.
We will always clamp our input and
output sizes to be legal sizes.
We do a lot of calculation,
we do a lot of work to actually
make sure that we never call any
plugins asking for output or output
sizes that they can't deliver,
or giving input textures
that are illegal sizes.
So, um...
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
The place where this gets tricky is,
as I was saying about
on the Z-buffer side,
trying to do multi-sampling or trying
to do anti-aliasing to improve quality.
Then very often what you want to do
is create a P-buffer that is larger
than your input so you can render into
it and then use that as a multi-sample
buffer to improve the quality.
gets very tricky.
You really have to be careful that
you're not running into these size
limits I've just been talking about
when you're actually doing that sort of
allocation of p-buffers that are larger
than the input that we're giving you.
So we don't have a
magic solution for this,
but we want to make sure that
if you're seeing corruption,
if you're seeing issues and you
are allocating p-buffers that are
larger than the input or the output,
that this is something that you
talk to us about and this is
something that you're aware of.
Okay,
well I'll just pass back to Dave here.
I wanted to point out one
other thing that because
FxPlug plugins are CFBundles,
NSBundles,
and they have resource folders,
while you can use the standard
CI filters built into Core Image,
all the regular
Core Image filters should work,
but you can also make your own
image units and they can sit
inside your resource folders,
you can load them when needed.
And there's a method,
you give a partial path name
or file name and you say,
use the standard bundle
method for getting that file,
the file with that path out
of your resource folder.
And you can use the type of image unit
that has actual Objective-C code in it,
or you can do the
script only image units,
those will work great.
too.
Another thing that I want to talk about
is Intel-based Macs and this whole thing.
Of course,
we don't have the SDK revved yet.
You wouldn't be able to use it anyway
until Motion is running on Intel-based,
on the transition kit.
But it will come and we'll let
you know what the strategy is.
Just keep watching the website.
There is a list of
links on the developer,
the WWDC page.
It has,
as I said in the session yesterday,
the place to go to
download the FxPlug SDK.
You can download it and you can look
at the headers and check out the
Xcode templates and the examples and
read the documentation and all that.
But to actually run and
execute the FxPlug SDK,
you can download it and you can look
at the headers and check out the Xcode
templates and the examples and read
the documentation The only host app,
of course, is Motion, and only Motion 2.
There is a 30-day trial version
of Motion available too,
so if you want to just check
out the SDK for a while,
you can do that.
and Dave Howell, Pete Warden.
So we'll take questions
at the microphone there,
but there's also afterwards a lunch
at 12:45 upstairs in the pro audio
and pro video connection room.
So grab a lunch and come
on up and we'll talk more.
and also if you have any,
if you want to contact us we
have a mailing list that's
proappsdk@group.apple.com.
and Phil Fitts.
It's a list of maybe a dozen people
at Apple who are working on FxPlug
and we'll be glad to answer questions.